README.md, before:

# DarkCanvas

A simple web interface for Fal.ai image generation with multiple AI models and aspect ratio options.

## 🚀 Quick Start

### Prerequisites
- Node.js 18+
- Fal.ai API key (get from [fal.ai/dashboard](https://fal.ai/dashboard))

### Installation & Setup

```bash
# Clone the repository
git clone https://github.com/undeadpickle/darkcanvas.git
cd darkcanvas

# Install dependencies
npm install

# Create environment file
cp .env.example .env
# Edit .env and add your Fal.ai API key:
# VITE_FAL_API_KEY=your_fal_api_key_here

# Start development server
npm run dev

# Build for production
npm run build

# Preview production build
npm run preview
```

### Environment Setup
1. Get your Fal.ai API key from [fal.ai/dashboard](https://fal.ai/dashboard)
2. Copy `.env.example` to `.env`
3. Add your Fal.ai API key: `VITE_FAL_API_KEY=your_key_here`
4. **Optional**: Add your OpenAI API key for BYOK models: `VITE_OPENAI_API_KEY=your_openai_key_here`
5. Start the dev server with `npm run dev`
6. Open the local URL shown in your terminal (typically http://localhost:5173) and generate images!

## 🏗️ Tech Stack

- **Framework**: Vite + React + TypeScript
- **UI**: shadcn/ui components with default theme
- **Styling**: Tailwind CSS v4 with Inter font
- **API**: @fal-ai/serverless-client
- **Icons**: Lucide React

## 📁 Project Structure

```
src/
├── components/
│   ├── ui/              # shadcn/ui components (Button, Card, Select, Slider)
│   └── generation/      # Image generation components
│       ├── GenerationForm.tsx    # Main form with mode toggle
│       ├── ImageUpload.tsx       # File upload for image-to-image
│       └── ImageDisplay.tsx      # Generated image display
├── lib/
│   ├── fal.ts          # Fal.ai client (text-to-image & image-to-image)
│   ├── models.ts       # Model configurations (5 total models)
│   ├── image-utils.ts  # Image upload and validation utilities
│   ├── logger.ts       # Simple logging
│   └── utils.ts        # Utilities
├── types/              # TypeScript definitions
└── index.css          # Global styles with default theme
```

## 🛠️ Development

See [CLAUDE.md](./CLAUDE.md) for detailed development guidelines and workflow.

See [PRD](./docs/darkcanvas-prd.md) for product requirements and architecture.

## 📋 Features

### Text-to-Image Generation
- ✅ 3 AI models: SDXL-Lightning, SeedDream v4, GPT Image 1 (OpenAI DALL-E BYOK)
- ✅ Aspect ratio presets (Square, Landscape, Portrait variations)
- ✅ PNG format output with safety checker disabled

### Image-to-Image Generation
- ✅ 2 specialized models: SeedDream v4 Edit, GPT Image 1 Edit (OpenAI BYOK)
- ✅ File upload with preview and validation (PNG, JPG, WebP up to 15MB with automatic compression)
- ✅ Automatic aspect ratio detection - aspect ratio selector updates to match uploaded image dimensions
- ✅ Same aspect ratio support as text-to-image

### Core Features
- ✅ Consolidated interface with Image/Video tabs
- ✅ Mode toggle between text-to-image and image-to-image within Image tab
- ✅ API key management (secure environment variables)
- ✅ Image download functionality
- ✅ Error handling and loading states
- ✅ Responsive design with shadcn/ui
- ✅ Clean default theme with excellent contrast
- ✅ Video placeholder tab for future features
- ✅ Production-ready build with optimized bundle (396KB JS, 30KB CSS)

## 🔑 Environment

API keys are stored securely in environment variables. No backend required.

### Required Variables
- `VITE_FAL_API_KEY` - Your Fal.ai API key (required)

### Optional Variables
- `VITE_OPENAI_API_KEY` - Your OpenAI API key for BYOK models (optional)
  - If not set, you'll need to enter it manually when using OpenAI models
  - If set, it will be pre-loaded automatically for convenience
  - **Important**: OpenAI organization verification is required to use GPT Image models
    - Verify at [OpenAI Organization Settings](https://platform.openai.com/settings/organization/general)
    - Allow up to 15 minutes for verification to take effect

### Security Features
- Environment-based API key storage (not in browser)
- `.env` files automatically ignored by Git
- No localStorage exposure to XSS attacks
- Clear setup instructions for new developers

## 📄 License

Private project.

Commit message:

Update CLAUDE.md, README.md, and project files to reflect the completion of Phase 3.1, introducing the "Use Generated Images as Source" feature. Enhance the GenerationForm and ImageDisplay components to support seamless image iteration workflows, including automatic mode switching and aspect ratio detection. Revise documentation to clarify new functionalities and project status.

README.md, after:

# DarkCanvas

A simple web interface for Fal.ai image generation with multiple AI models and aspect ratio options.

## 🚀 Quick Start

### Prerequisites
- Node.js 18+
- Fal.ai API key (get from [fal.ai/dashboard](https://fal.ai/dashboard))

### Installation & Setup

```bash
# Clone the repository
git clone https://github.com/undeadpickle/darkcanvas.git
cd darkcanvas

# Install dependencies
npm install

# Create environment file
cp .env.example .env
# Edit .env and add your Fal.ai API key:
# VITE_FAL_API_KEY=your_fal_api_key_here

# Start development server
npm run dev

# Build for production
npm run build

# Preview production build
npm run preview
```

### Environment Setup
1. Get your Fal.ai API key from [fal.ai/dashboard](https://fal.ai/dashboard)
2. Copy `.env.example` to `.env`
3. Add your Fal.ai API key: `VITE_FAL_API_KEY=your_key_here`
4. **Optional**: Add your OpenAI API key for BYOK models: `VITE_OPENAI_API_KEY=your_openai_key_here`
5. Start the dev server with `npm run dev`
6. Open the local URL shown in your terminal (typically http://localhost:5173) and generate images!

## 🏗️ Tech Stack

- **Framework**: Vite + React + TypeScript
- **UI**: shadcn/ui components with default theme
- **Styling**: Tailwind CSS v4 with Inter font
- **API**: @fal-ai/serverless-client
- **Icons**: Lucide React

## 📁 Project Structure

```
src/
├── components/
│   ├── ui/              # shadcn/ui components (Button, Card, Select, Slider)
│   └── generation/      # Image generation components
│       ├── GenerationForm.tsx    # Main form with mode toggle
│       ├── ImageUpload.tsx       # File upload for image-to-image
│       └── ImageDisplay.tsx      # Generated image display
├── lib/
│   ├── fal.ts          # Fal.ai client (text-to-image & image-to-image)
│   ├── models.ts       # Model configurations (5 total models)
│   ├── image-utils.ts  # Image upload and validation utilities
│   ├── logger.ts       # Simple logging
│   └── utils.ts        # Utilities
├── types/              # TypeScript definitions
└── index.css          # Global styles with default theme
```

## 🛠️ Development

See [CLAUDE.md](./CLAUDE.md) for detailed development guidelines and workflow.

See [PRD](./docs/darkcanvas-prd.md) for product requirements and architecture.

## 📋 Features

### Text-to-Image Generation
- ✅ 3 AI models: SDXL-Lightning, SeedDream v4, GPT Image 1 (OpenAI DALL-E BYOK)
- ✅ Aspect ratio presets (Square, Landscape, Portrait variations)
- ✅ PNG format output with safety checker disabled

### Image-to-Image Generation
- ✅ 2 specialized models: SeedDream v4 Edit, GPT Image 1 Edit (OpenAI BYOK)
- ✅ File upload with preview and validation (PNG, JPG, WebP up to 15MB with automatic compression)
- ✅ Automatic aspect ratio detection - aspect ratio selector updates to match uploaded image dimensions
- ✅ Same aspect ratio support as text-to-image
- ✅ **Use generated image as source** - "Use in Image-to-Image" button allows seamless iteration

### Core Features
- ✅ Consolidated interface with Image/Video tabs
- ✅ Mode toggle between text-to-image and image-to-image within Image tab
- ✅ API key management (secure environment variables)
- ✅ Image download functionality
- ✅ Error handling and loading states
- ✅ Responsive design with shadcn/ui
- ✅ Clean default theme with excellent contrast
- ✅ Video placeholder tab for future features
- ✅ Production-ready build with optimized bundle (396KB JS, 30KB CSS)

## 🔑 Environment

API keys are stored securely in environment variables. No backend required.

### Required Variables
- `VITE_FAL_API_KEY` - Your Fal.ai API key (required)

### Optional Variables
- `VITE_OPENAI_API_KEY` - Your OpenAI API key for BYOK models (optional)
  - If not set, you'll need to enter it manually when using OpenAI models
  - If set, it will be pre-loaded automatically for convenience
  - **Important**: OpenAI organization verification is required to use GPT Image models
    - Verify at [OpenAI Organization Settings](https://platform.openai.com/settings/organization/general)
    - Allow up to 15 minutes for verification to take effect

### Security Features
- Environment-based API key storage (not in browser)
- `.env` files automatically ignored by Git
- No localStorage exposure to XSS attacks
- Clear setup instructions for new developers

## 📄 License

Private project.
